now two more hostages are back in Israel
after being freed in an overnight raid
in Gaza Israel says they were rescued in
a special military operation in the
southern city of Rafa the two men were
kidnapped during the October 7 Terror
attacks on Israel by Hamas which is
regarded as a terror organization by
multiple countries they were flown by a
helicopter to a hospital near Tel Aviv
for medical
checks reunited with their families
Luise ha and Fernando Simon mman were
rescued by Israel's military and
security forces during overnight raids
in
Rafa after 128 days held captive by
Hamas in
Gaza they are currently receiving
treatment in a hospital where they are
both said to be in a stable
condition for their families the sense
of relief is mixed with concern for the
hostages still being held in
Gaza luckily for us as a family they
were saved tonight but I must say that
the job is not done we are happy today
but it's not a we didn't win it's just
another step towards bringing all the
other 134 hostages back home and it
doesn't matter if it's babies women men
Elder people everybody must come back as
soon as
possible Israeli air strikes devastated
parts of Rafa
overnight
flattening
buildings and destroying a
mosque dozens of Palestinians were
killed and many more taken to hospital
with serious
injuries we were at home when the air
strikes were going on I told my mother
that I wanted to use the bathroom as she
was awake suddenly all the walls of the
bathroom and all the water containers
above it collapsed on
me most of the roughly 1.4 million
Palestinians currently in Rafa fled from
other parts of
Gaza they were trying to escape the
intense fighting in other areas and the
city was designated a safe zone for
civilians by the Israeli Army but recent
Israeli strikes on Rafa have eliminated
any sense of security for Palestinians
there let's pick up some of those points
with deal lettz who joins us now from
tviv his grandmother yoked was taken
hostage by Hamas on October the 7th she
was later released uh she was released
later that month but his grandfather
odad remains in Hamas captivity welcome
to DW um can we start with your late
with your reaction to this latest news
that the Israeli military has freed two
hostages
well this is really exciting thing I
tell you why because
today two
families basically this is a one big
family now got their beloved ones back
two of them back so these two families
right now can sleep at night and
understanding that they're back at home
with them and this is the most amazing
thing and this is the perfect
presentence for those family who' been
suffering so much
and for me
it's it's very hard and I tell you why
because we have evidence that shows that
sometimes in a military actions
sometimes Kamas increases their reaction
for the hostages that's still H being
over there that's still being hostage
over there so we freed two of them H but
now it's make me more terrified about
the other ones alive because Hamas is a
really tricky organization right they
don't really care about life and they
might hurt the other hostages over there
so right and your grandfather is amongst
that the hostage is still being held I
understand um what have you heard
from yeah what have you heard from or
about him since he was
taken the only thing we know about him
that he did survive the 7th of October H
and he been held in a room in Gaza we're
not really sure exactly where but he's
not well at all H the last news we got
about him is around almost four months
back and yeah this is not an ideal
condition right okay now we we were just
looking at some of those those protests
uh in Israel and we have Mr nessan who's
saying that the operation to free the
hostages shows that it is right to keep
up military pressure the hostages who
were released today or last night say
that a deal is needed to secure the
release of all the remaining hostages um
where are you in that um in that
argument I tell you what this is an
argument and this is not an argument the
last deal that have been uh that have
done uh that they released almost uh One
released 110 people 100 hostages been
released by this
deal the Army Force really helped that
because Hamas made made have feel that
they need um some break to organize
themselves for the next step and they
understood that they have to go for a
deal so it have influence about that but
in the bottom line in the
end the the Army Force might even kill
those hostages and it did happen some of
the some of the videos that have we seen
the last host hostages that been died in
there H was died because of Israeli
bombing bombed right next to a place
over there and Hamas guy was sced so he
shot the guy because he thought this is
might be a rescue and he shot the
hostage that been there and you know
this is a straight effect of this Army
and and so so was Mr Netanyahu right to
uh reject um the Hamas counter proposals
for a deal last
week I think that Israeli need to go for
a deal as fast as we can because uh we
don't really have time for these
hostages that are still over there and I
think that I'm not aware for all the
information that netan is aware to and I
want to believe that everyone wants to
do everything to release our beloved
ones but I do H want to tell
that we have to go for hard decisions we
have to because if we won't go for hard
decisions including accepting stuff that
Kamas demanding we won't have any chance
to get them back alive so okay that's
the thing thank you so much for joining
us and sharing your thoughts with us de
lifshitz in Tel
Aviv thank you very
much Marina Miran is a military Analyst
at the war studies department at Kings
College London I asked her why it's such
a difficult task for Israel to rescue
the
hostages well we have to understand in
what conditions Hamas operates in Gaza
we know that on the one hand they use
building civilian buildings on the other
hand they also use underground tunnels
and it is to assume that they are not
keeping the hostages all in one place
meaning that they would have dispersed
them because we have to understand the
importance of hostages to Hamas this is
a bargaining chip that Hamas can use to
negotiate ceasefires with Israel so for
Hamas it's very important to ensure that
Israel soldiers do not find the hostages
and finding them is like uh finding a
needle in a stack but you first have to
locate the stack and so it's very very
difficult uh and we have seen also cases
where the Israeli soldiers didn't
recognize their own hostages so they
don't know exactly what these people
look like as well making it even more
serious now Israel has um not come up
with a plan for over a million displaced
gazans who are Sheltering in Rafa what
would a potential ground offensive look
like that that is correct uh there is no
concrete plan except for sending uh
these people 1 and a half million to the
north I do not think that all of these
people can be relocated and conducting a
ground offensive with 1 and a half
million packed into Rafa um means that
there will be collateral damage and it
is inevitable because if even if you're
using Precision guided Munitions to
destroy buildings there is still a risk
of collateral damage and of course for
the ground troops this is not a nice
environment to operate in because they
will have to separate the population
from the Hamas meaning that Hamas can
just comfortably F uh hide inside um the
population and not be easily
distinguished again creating a greater
risk for civilian casualties which would
again benefit Hamas uh to show what
Israel and Military is doing to
civilians and of course of the Israeli
military it is bad in a sense that
neutral civilians who might not have
supported Hamas before will certainly
throw their support behind Hamas seeing
how the Israeli soldiers are killing uh
Palestinians who are not part of the
conflict now there have been uh reports
and that's a related issue of Hamas
Fighters reappearing in the north and
there is ongoing fighting there around
Khan yunes as well what's happening with
the ground offensive in those areas
well from what it looks like the uh Han
unun area is is still active in a sense
that it is not completely cleared than
under control of the IDF and because
Hamas still has a working part of their
tunnel Network they can also use that in
order to surprise the Israeli forces and
that's what they have been doing making
it very difficult to clear areas and to
hold them
um me meaning also that even if Israel
comes up with with a good plan to get
some civilians out of Rafa we have again
the risk of Hamas Fighters escaping
together with those civilians and
popping up in areas where one wouldn't
expect them Marina Mar on there from the
war studies department at Kings College
London thank you very much
Marina